>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
we're gonna talk about sorting.
How many people here have implemented
some sort of sort on their own?
Two or three of us, very cool.
What's sort?
Do you guys use sorting at work?
Do you implement your own
sorting algorithms at work?
Or you just did it for fun?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Everyone's now
looking at me, this is really funny.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So,
when did you implement
a sorting algorithm?
>> Speaker 2: I did a binary exclusion
as part of a class one time.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm,
so, for school, cool.
School, for fun?
Suddenly no one knows how to talk.
I have amnesia sometimes, so I understand.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: All right, cool, so
sorting, sorting is super important.
We do have a native sort method in
JavaScript that we'll talk about.
It does not use any of these
elementary sorts, thank God,
because what we're gonna learn is that
they all kind of suck in terms of speed.
But it is important for
us to go through them.
They're gonna be your basic naive
implementation when you sit down in
the chair and the scary interviewer
is like, here is an unsorted list and
blah, blah, blah, something,
something, and you need to sort it.
This is probably what you're gonna
start off with your first stab.
Unless you master one or
both of our tecursive
sorts later this afternoon, cool?
>> Speaker 3: My friend asked me if
we were going to reverse a binary
tree on a whiteboard.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: We are not
gonna be doing any white boarding.
>> Speaker 3: [LAUGH]
Yay.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: But yeah.
If you're gonna be doing white boarding
interviews, definitely practice this kind
of stuff on a, we have one whiteboard,
but that's broken unfortunately.
But good question.
Awesome.
We're gonna start with bubble.
So, basically how bubble sort works, and
I'll just have this gif that
should start working a second.
So bubble sort just compares
adjacent values and
swaps the larger one up to the top.
And so, it's called bubble sort because
the higher numbers start to bubble up
to the end and as we go up you'll
see we'll start to, on the right,
have a sorted array, and on the left
we will have an unsorted array.
Although this sort here
is not optimized so
it's not even thinking
about that too much.
Cool.
There's something really important
that I have to share with you.
Which is this video, which is awesome.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
I'll know if you guys are ready for this.
But this is
these Eastern European dances that
implement, have you guys seen this before?
My God, it's so good, are you ready?
I don't know if you guys can hear it.
No, Chrome doesn't play videos.
Let me open Firefox.
Does anyone else have that problem?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay.
>> [MUSIC]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Isn't this
awesome?
>> [MUSIC]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: If I had free time,
I'd be doing stupid stuff like this.
Come on.
They're gonna get started any second now.
Here we go.
>> [MUSIC]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Come on,
start sorting.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
Here we go.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So we compare,
3 is greater, it goes up.
>> [MUSIC]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Extra credit if
someone learns this dance before tomorrow.
[LAUGH]
>> [MUSIC]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool, let's skip,
I know you guys wanna watch
all five minutes of it.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH].
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Let's skip maybe
to like-
>> [MUSIC]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Here,
just to get the full experience.
We are the YouTube generation.
We can't watch anything for
more than 30 seconds.
>> [MUSIC]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And now it's sorted.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Awesome.
I just wanted to share that with you,
because I just love any
moment where these can be
slightly more interesting, like any way.
>> [MUSIC]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: [LAUGH] All right,
cool.
So I have-.
>> Speaker 4: Have you see the D3 one?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: They have-.
>> Speaker 4: The sorting with D3?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 4: Okay, I'll post the link.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: They
are some good videos for that?
>> Speaker 4: It's not video, it's-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: It's a D3
visualization, maybe?
>> Speaker 4: Yeah.
Micro Stock has a whole talk
on visualizing algorithms.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool.
That's awesome.
>> Speaker 4: So you can literally type
in, visualizing algorithms
Micro Stock I'll past it into chat.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool.
All right.
>> Speaker 4: They have some really
good stuff.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So that's bubble sort.
Again, we're comparing adjacent
elements, swapping the bigger one.
Swapping, swapping,
swapping, starting over.
Swapping, swapping, swapping.
Cool, pretty straightforward.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Here's our interface.
So bubble sort is a function, it takes
a list and it returns a sorted list.
It does some things in between,
loops through it,
maybe compares some, maybe swaps them.
How is this interface different than when
we were talking about the interfaces for
a data structure?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Anyone?
>> Speaker 5: Well, the ones where their
data structures had a return value.
This is more like a, I don't know.
I guess that you could say this
is returning a sorted list.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, mm-hm?
>> Speaker 3: I fee like you would
instantiate a queue or a stack.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah yeah yeah.
>> Speaker 3: And this is just
a function you pass a list to,
and it returns a sorted list.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
exactly, so this is an algorithm.
We're not doing any sort
of class patterns here.
It's just gonna be a function that
takes an input, gives an output.
That's what I'm looking for.
So in our interface, we're not
gonna have a constructor function.
We're not gonna have shared methods.
This is just a method, and
maybe this method could live
as a shared method on
the data structure perhaps.
So this is like sort of a zoom
in of one of those methods
that you might have on a prototype
of some data structure.
Probably not bubble sort because
as you might have noticed,
it's pretty slow that's why
the video is like five minutes long.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: But it works,
it works, and if you just need
something that works, I'm not judging.
Cool.
All right, so now it's over to you again.
We're gonna pseudocode bubble sort.
I'm gonna give you ten minutes to
write out some pseudocode about
how you think you can go about
approaching this algorithm.
Let's check it out.
Here's my pseudocode.
Mine says.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: For
k, loop through 1 to n-1.
For i, loop to 0 to n-2.
If the first one is greater than
the second one, or the next one, right,
adjacent, switch them.
Bubble sort.
Anyone do it differently?
>> Speaker 4: While loop.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: While loop.
Instead of the other one.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay, cool.
No?
Okay, so that's the pseudocode for
bubble sort.
We're gonna jump into how do we
analyze the run time of bubble sort?
Cool.
So, our loop, ( n- 1 ), right,
because we're only looping to the end.
Next one, ( n- 2 ), right?
Which probably isn't gonna matter later.
Remember that these smaller
things don't really matter.
Then we have some constant swaps and
things like that, yeah?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool, so again,
since they're nested, we multiply them.
And you can use a polynomial expander
if you want, or you can do it yourself.
If you wanna like hark back to,
what's that?
Trigonometry, precalculus or something?
>> Speaker 3: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: But
it comes out to this.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Where really
all we care about is the n squared.
So if you add it all up, or
multiply it all up and then expand it,
it'll look like this.
But at the end of the day,
we consider this an n squared algorithm.
So yeah, there is some math that
you can do if you're into that.
But when we're thinking about it, we only
think about it in terms of n squared.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool, any questions?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Is everyone
clear how we got this?
>> Speaker 4: Can you explain
the first two things, k and i?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: k and i.
Yeah that's like when you say for i = 0,
for k = 0, or j, just a variable name.
So this is a variable name in our loop.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: This is just sort
of like a standard pseudocode kind
of wording.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
you're looping through and all the, for
every loop this is gonna be
incremented from 1 to n- 1.
So the first loop k will be 1,
the second loop will be 2, etc.
And then for i, I'll start at 0 and
we'll go to n- 2.
>> Speaker 4: So n is the length of the-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Of the list.
>> Speaker 4: Yeah, yeah, okay.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
exactly, exactly.
So a is our array, we have i,
i + 1, and we swapped them.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool,
since they're nested, we multiply them.
This is called a polynomial.
That's not really important.
All we need to know is at the end
of the day it goes to n squared.
If you can see that pattern and
you can make that estimation,
that's all you need to do.
But if you're interested in that,
you can also do it more
specifically if you'd like.
>> Speaker 4: What's k in this?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: k is the variable
in the loop when you say 4 of our i.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 4: It's just the editor.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
Yeah, great.
So we have some nested loops in here.
We know that's gonna be n squared.
Doesn't it feel nice?
You can dust off the math.
Except for our mathematician David,
he's probably sad.
But everyone else is probably relieved.
Do we feel relieved?
A little bit?
Less intimidated by it,
perhaps, hopefully.
Okay, cool.
>> Speaker 4: Yeah, and of course you can
just replace the n- 1 with n instead of
expanding, right?
Unless you like multiplying.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep, absolutely.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: All right so,
you could optimize it a little bit,
and not loop all the way to the end.
And then we have something called n-k-1.
Because we're not going to the end
as the end of our loop is sorted.
Do you have a question?
>> Speaker 5: You want the inner
loop to have a k in it, right?
Not the outer.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah you
might be right there, thank you.
Either way,
the point here that I'm trying to make
is that at the end of the day
this is still n squared.
So even if we optimize this a little bit,
still gonna be n squared, so there we are.
Bubble sort, n squared, space complexity,
constant, cuz it's in place.